::: titlepage
::: center
![image](logo/logo.png){height="0.15\\textheight"}

[Faculdade de Engenharia\
Universidade do Porto]{.smallcaps}
:::

::: mdframed
::: center
:::
:::

::: center
::: center
Capstone Project, Project Plan
:::
:::
:::

# Summary

Plants present a unique opportunity for a sustainable sensing platform
and they include various biological mechanisms that are controlled by
environmental variables, such as light, gas concentration and are even
sensitive to touch. In this project, we will explore the ability to
observe, acquire and process, in a controlled environment (a lab and/or
a greenhouse facility) electrical signals generated by several plants
using specific bio-electrodes being currently developed in a laboratory
setting. The candidates will assemble a portable (ideally embedded) data
acquisition and processing hardware kit (based on an existent hardware
platform consisting of a CPU and interface with sensors - such as a
Raspberry Pi) and the corresponding basic signal processing to acquire,
pre-process and store on a computer server digital representations of
the electrical responses observed with the plants under study alongside
environmental conditions (such as temperature, light, humidity). The
developed data collection solution will also include the facility to
stream data to a desktop or cloud server and the development of a
software dashboard accessible via a web browser to show the values of
the sensors in real-time.

# Objectives

The expected project outcomes will consist of a hardware/software data
acquisition, data storage and processing system designed to interact
with selected plant organisms in a laboratory setting. In addition, the
project will develop a dashboard to show via web the real-time sensing
data.

This project will include a collaboration with the Biophysics and
Bioelectronics Lab. of the University of Coimbra where the final stages
of data acquisition and field experiments will be carried out once the
developed solution has been tested and validated using plant proxies in
a laboratory setting at FEUP.

# Project Schedule

   **Task**                                            **March**  **April**            **May**             **June**
  ---------- ---------------------------------------- ----------- ----------- -- -- -- --------- -- -- -- ----------
             1\. Research Sensors and Compatibility                                                       
             2\. Connect Raspberry PI to ADC                                                              
             3\. Connect Raspberry PI to Sensors                                                          
             4\. Connect Raspberry PI to WiFi                                                             
             5\. Configure Server and Database                                                            
             6\. Create Database                                                                          
             7\. Send Sensor Data to Database                                                             
             8\. UI Mockups                                                                               
             9\. Front-end UI                                                                             
             10\. Real-Time Graphs                                                                        
             11\. Multiple Plant Configuration                                                            

## Milestone - Raspberry PI \[RPI\] 

This first milestone's objective is to understand how the Raspberry PI
works and how the team can connect sensors to it. By the end of this
milestone, the team has assembled a Raspberry PI that collects various
real-world information like ambient light, humidity, and temperature, as
well as electrical signals generated by a plant.

### Research Sensors and Compatibility

This task has the objective of research for the sensors of light,
humidity, ultrasound and temperature that can be use with the version of
Raspberry PI. This includes research about sensor interfaces like I2C or
SPI, and checking if there are no address collisions for I2C interfaces.

### Connect Raspberry PI to ADC

This task has the objective of understanding how the Raspberry PI
connects to ADC (Analog Data Converter), since it's with that connection
that the Raspberry PI will receive the packages with data collected from
the plants' electrical signals.

### Connect Raspberry PI to Sensors

This task has the objective of understanding how the Raspberry PI
connects to the sensors we got from the research, since the data
collected with those sensors is the base to develop and test the
project. This includes making sure the Raspberry PI has pull-up
resistors correctly working, connecting the I2C pins to the sensors and
creating a program that reads from the sensors and stores the data in a
file.

### Connect Raspberry PI to WiFi

This task has the objective of understanding how the Raspberry PI can be
connected to WiFi using a dongle WiFi adapter, so the project will be
accessible anywhere through the Internet.

## Milestone - Database \[DB\] 

This second milestone's objective is to configure the server and the
database that will receive the data to show in dashboards, in real-time.
By the end of this milestone, the team has assembled a server and a
database capable of saving data from sensors or the ADC.

### Configure Server and Database

This task has the objective of configuring the server and the database
that will be saving the data in real-time from the sensors or ADC. This
includes installing all needed software, setting up SSH keys and
creating an HTTP server.

### Create Database

This task has the objective of creating the database that will be saving
the data in real-time from the sensors or ADC. This includes creating a
TimescaleDB database that can handle time-series data.

### Send Sensor Data to Database

This task has the objective of understanding how and what will be send
to the database from the data we receive from sensors or from the ADC

## Milestone - Online Dashboard \[DASH\]

This third milestone's objective is to make a interactive web
application where the user can see dashboards with the real-time data
collected from the sensors or ADC.

### UI Mockups

This task has the objective of making Mockups that show how the user
will interact with the application as well as the design.

### Front-end UI

This task has the objective of creating the front-end UI of the
dashboard using React.

### Real-Time Graphs

This task has the objective of making the real-time graphs that show the
data that is being collected in real-time by the sensors on a plant.

### Multiple Plant Configuration

This task has the objective of configuring the application in a way to
collect data coming from more than one plant at the same time.

## Stretch Goals

The Stretch Goals are objectives the team would like to achieve after
all basic functionality is implemented.

### Plant 3D Render

This extra goal has the objective of doing an interactive plant 3D
render where the user could see the dashboards with the real-time data
collected.

### Infer Meaning of Electrical Signals using Machine Learning

This extra goal has the objective of using Machine Learning to infer
meaning of electrical signals, like knowing if a plant is being touched,
if it needs watering or if it needs more light.
